---
layout: post
title: Jekyll
Date: 2022-03-20 14:30:54
---
# Using Jekyll to create a gitpage on windows
## Understanding Jekyll, Gem, Bundle, Ruby
### [what is Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/)
>Ruby is a dynamic, open source programming language with a focus on simplicity and productivity. It has an elegant syntax that is natural to read and easy to write.

Ruby is most used for **building web applications**. However, it is a general-purpose language similar to Python, so it has many other applications like data analysis, prototyping, and proof of concepts.

### [What is a Ruby gem?](https://www.rubyguides.com/2018/09/ruby-gems-gemfiles-bundler/)

A gem is a package that you can download & install. When you require an installed gem you’re adding extra functionality to your Ruby program.

### [What Is Bundler?](https://www.rubyguides.com/2018/09/ruby-gems-gemfiles-bundler/)

While learning about Ruby gems you may also read about Bundler. But what is Bundler exactly? Bundler is a tool for dependency management. Didn’t RubyGems already handle this? Well, it does… but only for the gems themselves. Your regular Ruby application isn’t built as a gem, so it doesn’t get this feature. That’s why Bundler exists!

Bundler (and RubyGems since version 2.0) can read Gemfile & install the requested versions of the gems.
 1. `gem 'rails', '~> 5.2.1'`
 2. `gem 'puma', '~> 3.11'`

TODO:
- what is gem
- what is Bundle
- What is Jekyll

## Using jekyll to create a "Hello world" post
- Install Ruby, Gem
- Using Gem to install Jekyll, Bundler, Wdm, Webrick:
  `gem install jekyll bundler wdm webrick`
- Create a directory to deposite your personal website:
  `mkdir docs, cd docs`
- Create **Gemfile** to list project's dependencies: `bundle init`
- Modify **Gemfile** by adding:
  + `gem "jekyll"`
  + `gem webrick`
  + `gem 'wdm', '>= 0.1.0' if Gem.win_platform?`
- Create your site by creating an `index.html`
- Write something:
    ```<!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>Home</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    </body>
    </html>
- `bundle install` to install all gem packages from "Gemfile".
- Create local site: `jekyll serve`

## Some notes
- `_drafts` folder deposits posts that you are not ready to publish. Once they are ready, move them to `_posts` folder. To view the drafts, use the command `jekyll serve --drafts`
- Add page: change layout to `page`
- Add permalink: permalink: /:categories
- Add defaults front matter to `_config.yml`:
  ```
  defaults:
    -
      scope:
      path: "" #which file to apply to, empty->all files
      type: "post" #aplly to all posts
      values:
        layout: "post"
        title: "my title"
- Change a theme: in `Gemfile`, add `theme: theme-name`
- `_layouts` folder contains layout html files. The name of the layout is the file name. If wanna use them, just change the layout variable in your front matter.
- different level layouts embedding.
- Access variable by `{{ variable }}`
- Include: header, footer or navigation: { include header.html }
## change a theme