---
layout: post
title:  "RemoteX11 configuration on vscode"
date:   2022-03-20 13:57:00 -0400
tags: ["tools"]
---
# Remote X11 understanding

Suppose we have a local machine (windows/linux), wanna do some deep learning training or data analysis in a remote linux server to . To show images like `plt.plot() & plt.show()` in local machine we need X11 forwarding which directly renderes images in local machine.
- Ok, first step we should connect to a remote linux server from our local machine. Supposing using SSH connection in MobaXterm, we need a private key in local machine and a public key in remote server. Then `ssh user@ip -X`. The `-X` here enables X11 forwarding. W.o. `-X`, any plot command like `plt.plot() & plt.show()` wouldn't be shown in local machine. 
- Next, what we need to care about is the `$DISPLAY` variable in remote server. Using `echo $DISPLAY` in local terminal to check the value. If the `-X` args is enabled, the it will output something like `localhost:10.0`, wehre `localhost` refers to hostname of your computer (**I'm not sure whether it refers to remote server or local machine**). `10` display name, `0` screen name. Generally speaking, a display is composed of a screen, a keyboard and a mouse.
- Now use `xclock` in your terminal to test GUI.

# configure on vscode
- Install `remoet X11` and `remote X11 (ssh)`
- Use `echo $DISPLAY` in vscode terminal to check display value
- If display value is none, add `export DISPLAY=localhost:10.0` to `~/.bashrc` and `source ~/.bashrc`.
- Open vscode configuration `ctrl+shit+p` and find out `remote X11 settings`, set up the display `10`, screen `0`.
- Using `xclock` to test 

# Notice
The default X11 forwarding can't render images or videos generated by python `gym` library. Because, the X11 forwarding only supports OPENGL1.5 and `gym` requires higher version. To render `gym` images, it involves a technique named "VirtualGL". It is complicated, I need some time to figure it out. Maybe next time.

# Configure GUI backend for singularity

Sometimes although the `RemoteX11` is setup for ssh login, the matplotlib in singularity cannot show as expected. A common warning is `UserWarning: Matplotlib is currently using agg, which is a non-GUI backend, so cannot show the figure.`.

- Solution for remote node:
    1. For a remote node, we have to ssh with x11 forwarding, `-X`.
    2. For a interactive node or computation node on remote cluster, we have to apply with arg  `--x11`.
    3. To show `matplotlib.pyplot` -> `plt.switch_backend('tkAgg')`.

- The solution only works for X11 forwarding. Some applications require openGL library. Now let's try to sort it out.

**remote server with openGL is still not solved**:frowning: